Problem/Solution/Implications analysis for the Folder title and index
Content object issue.

  Meta::

    Valid for:  Silva development version
    Author:     Jan-Wijbrand Kolman
    Email:      jw@infrae.com
    CVS:        $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2003/10/03 07:10:33 $

Problem :
---------

  In Silva it currently is hard for normal Authors to understand how the
  title of a Container is related to the title of the "default" or "index"
  Content object.

  A Container does have a "index" Content object by default, even if the Author
  does not really need one in the content structure he's producing. The
  title of the Container completely depends on the title of the "index" -
  if there is no "index" (e.g. it is deleted), the Container does not have
  a title.

Question:
---------

  Make Silva work in a simple, intuitive and self-explaining manner.

Solutions:
---------

  o Containers will have their own title.

  o The exceptional case of the "index" Content object is dropped.

Consequences / Implications:
----------------------------

  o Container titles are not versionable.

      Question:

        This means an Author can change the title of a Container without
        the review of an Editor.

      Solution 1:

        We leave it a that - it is just possible, like with other non-
        versioned Content object types like Indexers.

      Solution 2:

         The Author can only change the title of a Container, if it does
         not contain any published Content object (recursively).

  o A Container does not have "content" to show.

      Question:

       What content should then be shown, when the URL to a Container is
       opened?

      Solution:

        When the URL to a Container is opened, the content of the first
        publically viewable Content object is shown.

      Question:

        How will Docma handle this? Since it expects, currently, to place
        the content of the current "index" Content object, just after the
        heading denoting a chapter.

      Solution 1:

        We leave it at that - there's no content right after the chapter's
        heading.

      Solution 2:

        Since Authors who work with Silva content and Docma already, have
        to know/learn some special rules, we add one rule:

        "If the Author wants content just after the chapter's heading, he
        has to give the publically viewable Content object the id 'index'.
        Docma then, will suppress the title of this Content object."

      Solution 3:

        Provide an option at Silva-to-Docma-export-time to suppress the
        titles for the first publically viewable Content objects. Maybe
        even per Publication.

      Question:

        How will the import of a Word document be handled, if there's
        content just after the chapter's heading?

      Solution:

        This content will be a Content object where its title will be the
        same title as its Container will get.

  o In a TOC rendering, both the title of the Containers and the titles of
    the contained Content objects are shown.

      Question:

        Whereto do these titles link to, especially in the case of the
        Container title and the title of the first publically viewable
        Content object?

      Solution:

        The titles link to the URL of their respective objects.
 
  o Misc.

    o No change in the Silva XML export schema; "silva_folder" elements
    already have a "title" child element.
